Boro Sukher Khabor Gai
fficial Name: Dalalera Gita (The Song of the Broker)
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Vaiṣṇava Siddhanta Mala
(1)
boro sukher khabor gāi
surabhi-kuñjete nāmer hāṭ khule’che / khoda nitāi
(2)
boro mojār kathā tāy
śraddhā-mūlye śuddha-nāma sei hāṭete bikāy
(24)
(3)
jata bhakta-bṛnda basi’
adhikārī dekhe’ nāma becche daro kasi’ (4)
jadi nāma kinbe, bhāi
āmār saṅge calo, mahājaner kāche jāi
(5)
tumi kinbe kṛṣṇa-nāma
dasturi loibo āmi, pūrṇa ha’be kāma
(6)
boro doyāl nityānanda
śraddhā-mātra lo’ye den parama-ānanda
(7)
ek-bār dekhle cakṣe jal
‘gaura’ bole’ nitāi den sakala sambal
(8)
den śuddha kṛṣṇa-śikṣā
jāti, dhana, vidyā, bala nā kore apekṣā
(9)
amani chāḍe māyā-jāl
gṛhe thāko, bane thāko, nā thāke jañjāl
(10)
ār nāiko kalir bhoy ācaṇḍāle den nāma nitāi doyāmoy (11)
bhaktivinoda ḍāki’ koy
nitāi-caraṇa binā ār nāhi āśroy
TRANSLATION
1) I am singing news of great happy tidings. Lord Nityananda Himself has opened a market-place of the Holy Name in Surabhi-Kunja.
2) The news of its great results is that He is selling the pure Holy Name in that market-place for the price of only one's faith.
3) Lord Nityananda, the proprietor of the market, seeing all the devotees become attracted, is selling them the Holy Name after bargaining with them.
4) O brother, if you want to buy the Holy Name, then go with me. We must go to the presence of that great soul, Nityananda.
5) You will buy the name of Kṛṣṇa, I will take my commission and all of our desires will be fulfilled.
6) Lord Nityananda is greatly merciful. Taking only one's faith, He gives the highest ecstasy.
7) If Nitai sees only once tears in the eyes while chanting the name "Gaura", then He gives all resources to that person.
8) He gives the pure teachings of Kṛṣṇa to everyone and does not care for one's birth, wealth, knowledge and strength.
9) Now, giving up the illusory snare of Maya, either remain in household life or in the forest as a sannyasi for no more troubles remain.
10) There is no more fear of the age of Kali. The merciful Nityananda gives the Holy Name to even the candalas.
11) Bhaktivinoda calls out "Except for the lotus feet of Lord Nityananda there is no other shelter!"
